#summary The main Aperture class that absorbs particles if they are outside the user defined aperture.

#summary Description of the Aperture class.

= Summary =

This class implements a method to check if particles are outside of a user-specified aperture.  Particles outside of the aperture are removed and added to a lost particles bunch.  The method requires both a main bunch an a lost particles bunch as input. 

= Python Accessible Methods and Variables = 
  # *Collimator(int length, int ma, double density_fac, int shape, double  a, double b, double c, double d, double angle)*. An instance of a collimator. Creates a collimator. Variables:
     * length: Length of the collimator in meters
     * ma: Material type index: 1=carbon, 2=aluminum, 3=iron, 4=copper, 5=tantalum, 6=tungstun, 7=platinum, 8=lead, 9 = black absorber.
     * density_fac: A multiplier on the density of chosen material. Defaults to 1. 
     * shape: Shape type index: 1=circle, 2=ellipse, 3=one sided flat, 4=two sided flat, 5=rectangular (outside is collimator), 6=rectangular (inside is collimator). 
     * a: Radius for circular collimator, x-axis for elliptical, horizontal right side extent for flat and rectangular.
     * b: Y-axis for elliptical, left side horizontal extent for two-sided flat or rectangular. 
     * c: Upper side vertical extent for rectangular. 
     * d: Lower side vertical extent for rectangular.
     * angle: Tilt angle of the collimator defined in degrees.
  # *collimateBunch(Bunch bunch, Bunch lostbunch)*. The method to perform the collimation of the bunch. 
     * bunch: The Bunch to be collimated.
     * lostbunch: The Bunch to be populated with particles absorbed in the collimator. 
    
= Example Scripts = 

The following example demonstrates a bunch being propagated through a stand-alone circular iron collimator of length 0.5 meters and aperture 10 cm. After collimation the alive particles and the lost particles are printed. This example can also be found in: $ORBIT_PATH/examples/Collimation as collimatebunch.py .

{{{