= Summary =
The collimator class and auxiliary classes model the propagation of protons through various materials. The module only applies to protons in the energy range of 0 - 1.5 GeV. Other particle species are not handled, and there are no secondary particles generated.

There are five available collimator shapes: cirlce, elliptical, one sided flat, two sided flat, and rectangular.  The shape and aperture of the collimator are specified by the user.  0 aperture corresponds to a solid slab of material. 

Six materials are available for the collimator: 1=carbon, 2=aluminum, 3=iron, 4=copper, 5=tantalum, 6=tungstun, 7=platinum, 8=lead, 9 = black absorber.  The black absorber acts like an aperture which absorbs a particle on impact. There is also a user-specified density factor for each material, useful for modeling materials that are layered with water or air. 

The module requires input of two bunches from the Bunch class: one bunch for the alive particles being propagated, and one bunch to be populated with particles lost in the collimator. Particles are lost in the collimator when their energy is below 20 MeV, or when they suffer a nuclear inelastic scattering event. 

A collimator must be placed in a drift section whose length is equal to or greater than the collimator length. The space in the drift will be re-allocated to the collimator and surrounding drift region(s) such that the original drift length of the section is preserved. 

= Associated Classes =
  * *Collimator* - The class which defines the collimator and propagates particles. _Address_: $ORBIT_ROOT/src/orbit/MaterialInteractions/ .
  * *MaterialInteractions* - Class containing a collection of particle scattering methods. _Address_:$ORBIT_ROOT/src/orbi/MaterialInteractions/ .
  * *cross_sections* - This class belongs to namespace OrbitUtils.  It contains the elestic and inelastic cross sections for each material (barns), and material properties in MKS units. _Address_:$ORBIT_ROOT/src/orbi/MaterialInteractions/ .
  * *num_recipes* - Numerical recipes used in scattering models. _Address_: $ORBIT_ROOT/src/orbi/MaterialInteractions/ .
  * *wrap_collimator* - The python wrapper class for Collimator. _Address_: $ORBIT_ROOT/src/orbi/MaterialInteractions/ .
  * *TeapotCollimatorNode* - The python module that allows a user to  define collimator. _Address_: $ORBIT_ROOT/py/orbit/collimation/ .
  * *collimatorLatticeModifications* - The python module that allows a user to  add a defined collimator to the lattice in a drift region. _Address_: $ORBIT_ROOT/py/orbit/collimation/ .

= User Accessible Methods and Variables =
  # TeapotCollimatorNode(_int_ length, _int_ ma, _double_ density_fac, _int_ shape, _double_  a, _double_ b, _double_ c, _double_ d, _double_ angle, _string_ name)
  An instance of a collimator. Used to create a collimator. Variables are:
     * length: Length of the collimator in meters
     * ma: Material type index: 1=carbon, 2=aluminum, 3=iron, 4=copper, 5=tantalum, 6=tungstun, 7=platinum, 8=lead, 9 = black absorber.
     * density_fac: A multiplier on the density of chosen material. Defaults to 1. 
     * shape: Shape type index: 1=circle, 2=ellipse, 3=one sided flat, 4=two sided flat, 5=rectangular (outside is collimator), 6=rectangular (inside is collimator). 
     * a: Radius for circular collimator, x-axis for elliptical, horizontal right side extent for flat and rectangular.
     * b: Y-axis for elliptical, left side horizontal extent for two-sided flat or rectangular. 
     * c: Upper side vertical extent for rectangular. 
     * d: Lower side vertical extent for rectangular.
     * angle: Tilt angle of the collimator defined in degrees.
     * name: The name of the collimator.  
  # addTeapotCollimatorNode(_TEAPOT_Lattice_ lattice, _double_ position, _TeapotCollimatorNode_ collimator_node)
  A method to add the collimator to a Teapot lattice. 
     * lattice: The Teapot lattice the collimator should be added to.
     * position: The start position of the collimator in the lattice.
     * collimator_node: A previously defined collimator
  # track(_Dict_ paramsDict)
  A method of the TeapotCollimatorNode which tracks the particles through the collimator. An implementation AccNodeBunchTracker for the teapot collimator. 
     * paramsDict: A dictionary which should contain two items: 1) the main bunch to be collimated, and 2) the bunch to be populated with lost particles, which should have ParticleAttribute "LostParticleAttributes"