#summary A variation of the SNSESpreadDist class that allows for time dependent zmin and zmax values

= Summary =

This class is identical to the [SNSESpreadDist] class with added functionality of time dependent zmin and zmax variables. Zmin and zmax must both be lists of no less than two pairs and functions (in the mathematical sense) of time. When getCoordinates() is called, the time of the synchronous particle is used and the given functions are interpolated for values. 


= Python Accessible Methods and Variables=

 # *SNSESpreadDistPaint(lattlength, zminFunc, zmaxFunc, tailfraction, sp, emean, esigma, etrunc, emin, emax, ecparams, esparams)*. Creates the class.
  * lattlength: Total lattice length.
  * zminFunc: Function of time (list of pairs) for the minimum z of the distribution.
  * zmaxFunc: Function of time (list of pairs) for the maximum z of the distribution.
  * lattlength: Total lattice length.
  * sp: [SyncParticle] object (representing the synchronous particle of the distribution).
  * emean: Mean energy of the distribution.
  * esigma: Sigma spread of the energy distribution
  * etrunc: Flag for truncating the distribution. 0 is no truncation, 1 is truncation as specified by user parameters emit and emax.
  * emin: If etrunc is not 0, then this is the minimum of the energy distribution.
  * emax: If etrunc is not 0, then this is the maximum of the energy distribution.
  * ecparams: Parameters of the energy centroid jitter. List is ecparams = (ecmean, ecsigma, ectrunc, ecmin, ecmax, ecdrifti, ecdriftf, drifttime), where ecmean = mean of the centroid jitter; ecsigma = sigma of the centroid jitter; ectrunc = flag for truncation (0 for none, 1 for truncate); ecmin = the minimum energy for the jittered distribution, when ectrunc is not zero; ecmax = the minimum energy for the jittered distribution, when ectrunc is not zero; ecdrifti = initial drift energy of the centroid; ecdriftf = final drift energy of the centroid; driftime = total duration of centroid drift.
  * esparams: Parameters of the energy sinusoidal spreader. List is esparams = (esnu, esphase, esmax, nulltime) , where esnu = frequency of the sinusoidal spreader [Hz]; esphase = constant phase of the spreader, esmax = amplitude of the spreader; nulltime = time for decay of spreader voltage
 # *getCoordinates()*. Routine that generates and returns a single coordinate pair within specified distribution.

=Examples=
The following example is a simulation of the SNS ring with the SNSESpreadDistPaint distribution class implemented. With each call of 'trackBunch' the synchronous particle time is updated and the particles are injected accordingly.


{{{
import math
import sys


from orbit.teapot import teapot
from orbit.teapot import TEAPOT_Lattice
from orbit.teapot import DriftTEAPOT
from orbit.lattice import AccLattice, AccNode, AccActionsContainer
from bunch import Bunch
from orbit.utils.orbit_mpi_utils import bunch_orbit_to_pyorbit, bunch_pyorbit_to_orbit
from orbit.injection import TeapotInjectionNode
from orbit.injection import addTeapotInjectionNode
from injection import InjectParts
from injection import JohoTransverse, JohoLongitudinal, SNSESpreadDistPaint
from orbit.foils import TeapotFoilNode, addTeapotFoilNode
from foil import Foil
from orbit.collimation import TeapotCollimatorNode, addTeapotCollimatorNode
from orbit.space_charge.sc2p5d import scAccNodes, scLatticeModifications
from orbit.rf_cavities import RFNode, RFLatticeModifications


print "Start."

#=====Main bunch parameters============
intensity = 7.8e13
turns = 1000.0
macrosperturn = 260 #this is how many particles are injected per turn
macrosize = intensity/turns/macrosperturn

b = Bunch()
b.mass(0.93827231)
b.macroSize(macrosize)
energy = 1.0 #Gev
b.getSyncParticle().kinEnergy(energy)

paramsDict = {}
lostbunch = Bunch()
paramsDict["lostbunch"]=lostbunch
paramsDict["bunch"]= b
lostbunch.addPartAttr("LostParticleAttributes")

#=====Make a Teapot style lattice======

teapot_latt = teapot.TEAPOT_Ring()
print "Read MAD."
teapot_latt.readMAD("SNSring_pyOrbitBenchmark.LAT","RING")
print "Lattice=",teapot_latt.getName()," length [m] =",teapot_latt.getLength()," nodes=",len(teapot_latt.getNodes())

#------------------------------
#Initial Distribution Functions
#------------------------------

lattlength = teapot_latt.getLength()
sp = b.getSyncParticle()

order = 3.
alphax = 0.063
betax = 10.209
alphay = 0.063
betay = 10.776
emitlim = 0.152 * 2*(order + 1) * 1e-6
xcenterpos = 0.0468
xcentermom = 0.00
ycenterpos = 0.0492
ycentermom = 0.00

zlim = 120. * lattlength/360.

T = 9.45424317281e-07 #peroid of the synchronous particle

#This function has zmax start at half the zlimit and linearly slope to
#its full value over 50 tunrs. Then it remains constant. Zmin does the same
# only it is constantly 2*zlim less than zmax.
zmaxFunc = [[0,zlim/2],[T*49,zlim],[T*50,zlim]]
zminFunc = [[0,-(3/2)*zlim], [T*49,-zlim], [T*50,-zlim]]

tailfraction = 0
emean = sp.kinEnergy()
efac = 0.784
esigma = 0.0015*efac
etrunc = 1.
emin = sp.kinEnergy() - 0.0025*efac
emax = sp.kinEnergy() + 0.0025*efac
ecmean = 0
ecsigma = 0.0015*efac
ectrunc = 1.
ecmin = -0.0035*efac
ecmax = 0.0035*efac
ecdrifti = 0
ecdriftf = 0
turns = 1000.
tturn = lattlength / (sp.beta() * 2.998e8)
drifttime= 1000.*turns*tturn
ecparams = (ecmean, ecsigma, ectrunc, ecmin, ecmax, ecdrifti, ecdriftf, drifttime)

esnu = 100.
esphase = 0.
esmax = 0
nulltime = 0
esparams = (esnu, esphase, esmax, nulltime)

xFunc = JohoTransverse(order, alphax, betax, emitlim, xcenterpos, xcentermom)
yFunc = JohoTransverse(order, alphay, betay, emitlim, ycenterpos, ycentermom)
lFunc =SNSESpreadDistPaint(lattlength, zminFunc, zmaxFunc, tailfraction, sp, emean, esigma, etrunc, emin, emax, ecparams, esparams)

#====Injection and foil aperature============

xmin = xcenterpos - 0.0085
xmax = xcenterpos + 0.0085
ymin = ycenterpos - 0.0080
ymax = ycenterpos + 0.100

#=================Add the injection node and foil node==  ==============

nparts = 10
injectparams = (xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax)
injectnode = TeapotInjectionNode(nparts, b, lostbunch, injectparams, xFunc, yFunc, lFunc)
addTeapotInjectionNode(teapot_latt, 0., injectnode)

thick = 400.0
foil = TeapotFoilNode(xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax, thick, "Foil 1")
scatterchoice = 0
foil.setScatterChoice(scatterchoice)
addTeapotFoilNode(teapot_latt,0.000001,foil)

#----------------------------------------------
# Add one black absorber collimator to act like
# an aperture
#----------------------------------------------
colllength = 0.00001
ma = 9
density_fac = 1.0
shape = 1
radius = 0.110

collimator = TeapotCollimatorNode(colllength, ma, density_fac, shape, radius, 0., 0., 0., 0., "Collimator 1")
addTeapotCollimatorNode(teapot_latt, 0.5, collimator)

#-----------------------------
# Add RF Node
#-----------------------------

teapot_latt.initialize()
ZtoPhi = 2.0 * math.pi / lattlength;
dESync = 0.0
RF1HNum = 1.0
RF1Voltage = 0.000016
RF1Phase = 0
RF2HNum = 2.0
RF2Voltage = -0.000003
RF2Phase = 0
length = 0.0

rf1_node = RFNode.Harmonic_RFNode(ZtoPhi, dESync, RF1HNum, RF1Voltage, RF1Phase, length, "RF1")
rf2_node = RFNode.Harmonic_RFNode(ZtoPhi, dESync, RF2HNum, RF2Voltage, RF2Phase, length, "RF2")
position1 = 196.0
position2 = 196.5
RFLatticeModifications.addRFNode(teapot_latt, position1, rf1_node)
RFLatticeModifications.addRFNode(teapot_latt, position2, rf2_node)

#================Do 100 turns===========================================

for i in xrange(100):
	print "turn ",i+1
	teapot_latt.trackBunch(b, paramsDict)

bunch_pyorbit_to_orbit(teapot_latt.getLength(), b, "mainbunch.dat")
bunch_pyorbit_to_orbit(teapot_latt.getLength(), lostbunch, "lostbunch.dat")
print "Stop."


}}}